README.md, before:

# Chinese Zodiac Slot Machine

## A Javascript-based slot machine game

## Why I Started This
- I took the GA SEI course with an objective of obtaining a skillset to build a brand new website for my company toward the end of the course, and start working on in whenever I can.
- There are some UI designs that are built my a GA UX team that worked on our project. 
- There are interactive components on the website to increase engagement of visitors. One is a zodiac racing game and the other is a slot machine. 
- Since a slot machine was easier to build and it was in the list of recommended game, I chose to build a slot machine.
- I wanted to build something that would be used in the website eventually.
- I started this project to create a marketing material for our company's product. 

## Getting Started
- <a href="https://chinese-zodiac-slot-machine.surge.sh/">Game Link</a>
- You need 2 players to play the game.
- Each player will choose a zodiac avatar, and play the slot machine as an avatar.

## Screenshots
<img src="https://i.imgur.com/TGwyUzE.png" width="160px" height="280x" alt="screenshot-1">
<img src="https://i.imgur.com/u6XYpsE.png" width="160px" height="280x" alt="screenshot-2">
<img src="https://i.imgur.com/1i1WnUs.png" width="160px" height="280x" alt="screenshot-3">
<img src="https://i.imgur.com/nxs5Zql.png" width="160px" height="280x" alt="screenshot-4">
<img src="https://i.imgur.com/cDT2YrO.png" width="160px" height="280x" alt="screenshot-7">
<img src="https://i.imgur.com/d2UmKmv.png" width="160px" height="280x" alt="screenshot-8">

## Technologies Used 
- JavaScript, HTML, CSS, etc.

## Credits
- Slot machine effect: https://github.com/tognee/JavascriptSlotMachine/blob/master/index.html
- Emojis: Hang5 (https://www.hangfive.co), Stipop (https://stipop.io)
- Inspirations: General Assembly UX project team (Jason Kim, Sabrina Saffer, Ala Fard, Kim Pham)

## Original Wireframes
<img src="https://i.imgur.com/ceKYjms_d.webp?maxwidth=1520&fidelity=grand"  alt="wireframes">

## Original Website Sketch
<img src="https://i.imgur.com/odACAaA_d.webp?maxwidth=760&fidelity=grand" alt="UI-Sketch">

## Challenges
- The more I develop it, I keep finding more stuff to want to add or fix, but it becomes incrementally harder to add or fix stuff because the design elements are all relative. When I change one stuff, I need to track where I hide and show the elements. At some point I feel like is it worth it to spend couple hours to fix a minor bug. I have to find a better architecture to do it more efficiently later when it scales. 
- Scoreboard - whether to store and display the scores separately for each player each round.
- Slot machine effect - fidning good reference with easy-to-follow documentation for self-implementation.
- Hiding/Showing elements - more difficult as there were more features and css were added.
- Image size. Original size was 3000px X 3000px so when set as a bg image, it didn't show. I thought there was something wrong with the way I coded.
- Implementing tool tip
- Finding free animal sound files. Also, it was difficult to find good rat, rabbit, and monkey sound files
- Fixing items were incrementally more difficult as more features were added - non-scalable code.

## Findings/Questions
- .target is the same level is .textContent
- innerHTML not equal to .textContent?
- is whatever is in the textContent get automatically printed to HTML?
- what is target? just an object? can i replace it by any object?
- Are InnerHTML, innerText, textContent all on the same level?
- InnerHTML, innerText, textContent - if i assigned different strings to each. Which takes precedence?
- selecting each square to update is much easier than having one button to do all the work. 
- what does font-size: 62.5%; do?
- what does min-height do?
- what does 100vh do?
- what does view port do?
- the screen doesn't move to center when body width is defined in body css. 
- vh, vp, vw, min, max
- when you do pass through (evt) as a parameter for addeventlisteners
- what does session contents restored from 2/12/2022 at 4:20:50 PM mean?
- things like audio variable shoudl go under variables (state)?
- set at flex-start and then adjusting the margins is easier - than space around - contrary to what i thought at the beginning.
- what's em and rem
- img src vs. div background-image for slot machine
- give padding to main rather than giving margin/padding to  elements inside. 
- // console.log(`scoreBoard: ${scoreBoard}`) // why does this print with score as textContent even though it should be cleared to "". apply time delay to see if the textContent element has been reset in HTML
- #score-board-B > .score-board-b-turn { why doesn't this work?
- unit 1 assessment : why does font size from body change
- queryselectorall didn't work

## Next Steps (backlog)
- Play animal sound when player is chosen (before play button is clicked)
- Present winning zodiac's traits after the game is over. 
- Clean up code/refactor
- Adjust scoreboard box size
- Favicon gets dynamically updated. 
- Nintendo Switch/phone skin as background
- Sound effect for spin.
- animal sound when choosing player: Choose one of 12 zodiacs and they play the sound. 
- refactor scoresArray 
- winner's total scores are highlighted and colored.
- better way to initialize scoresArray.
- desktop responsive (media query): adjust to real-size desktop and mobile later
- show which zodiac the zodiacs in each pillar gets along with.
- Clean up css (code-level) area with structure
- choose player among 12 zodiacs and their sound is played when won. when there's a tie, a cat's sound is played. 
- bug: when you hit play again while spin is ongoing before total scores are revealed, it shows the total sdcore right away.
- bug: If you chooose somewhere in between the animals, it returns error in choose player
- build animation to slide up select area
- replace select player area using nav scrollspy.
- refactor doShuffle(): integrate 4 spin functions into one.
- favicon gets dynamically updated. 
- winner zodiac's sound plays afteer winning
- remove button after the 6th play so user can't click it. 
- share toggle
- show player's name at the end. 
- tool tip : line break
- choose player - title color changes based on who is picking
- make it so that shuffle button cannot be clicked twice. 
- turn/winner display should move down to bottom. 
- accept name from the player
- animal sound when choosing a zodiac. (with icon, before play button is clicked)
- when an animal is chosen (before selected), the chosen area background becomes colored with 0.5 opacity. 
- select player area - hide (animation - slide up & down), sound
- clean up code/refactor: css clean up
- CTA button - download
- Show which zodiac you get along with
- implement spin sound
- update scoreboard using append child: - use yeezy/taylor method to add score list to score board, Use createElement. Use ternary, use appendChild
- Adjust chance of winning in accordance with zodiac selection 
- you put in your bday, and a zodiac is chosen
- show official results board (historical rankings)
- scoreboard box size adjust

Commit message:

clean up getting started on readme

README.md, after:

# Chinese Zodiac Slot Machine

## A Javascript-based slot machine game

## Why I Started This
- I decided to take the GA SEI course with the immediate goal of building my company's brand new website, which is a zodiac-based friend discovery app, on my own toward the end of the course.
- A form of slot machine was already in the feature plan, and since it was also on the list of recommended game to build, I chose to build a slot machine game.
- A variation of this product will be integrated into the website in the future. 

## Getting Started
- <a href="https://chinese-zodiac-slot-machine.surge.sh/">Game Link</a>
- You need 2 players to play the game.
- Each player will choose a zodiac avatar, and play the slot machine as the selected avatar.
- Each player gets to spin the slot machine for 3 rounds.
- After three rounds of slot machine, the player with higher sum of score gets to win. 
- Scoring system: 
  - Four of a kind - 1000 points
  - Three of a kind - 100 points 
  - Two of a kind - 10 points (two pairs - 20 points)

## Screenshots
<img src="https://i.imgur.com/TGwyUzE.png" width="160px" height="280x" alt="screenshot-1">
<img src="https://i.imgur.com/u6XYpsE.png" width="160px" height="280x" alt="screenshot-2">
<img src="https://i.imgur.com/1i1WnUs.png" width="160px" height="280x" alt="screenshot-3">
<img src="https://i.imgur.com/nxs5Zql.png" width="160px" height="280x" alt="screenshot-4">
<img src="https://i.imgur.com/cDT2YrO.png" width="160px" height="280x" alt="screenshot-7">
<img src="https://i.imgur.com/d2UmKmv.png" width="160px" height="280x" alt="screenshot-8">

## Technologies Used 
- JavaScript, HTML, CSS, etc.

## Credits
- Slot machine effect: https://github.com/tognee/JavascriptSlotMachine/blob/master/index.html
- Emojis: Hang5 (https://www.hangfive.co), Stipop (https://stipop.io)
- Inspirations: General Assembly UX project team (Jason Kim, Sabrina Saffer, Ala Fard, Kim Pham)

## Original Wireframes
<img src="https://i.imgur.com/ceKYjms_d.webp?maxwidth=1520&fidelity=grand"  alt="wireframes">

## Original Website Sketch
<img src="https://i.imgur.com/odACAaA_d.webp?maxwidth=760&fidelity=grand" alt="UI-Sketch">

## Challenges
- The more I develop it, I keep finding more stuff to want to add or fix, but it becomes incrementally harder to add or fix stuff because the design elements are all relative. When I change one stuff, I need to track where I hide and show the elements. At some point I feel like is it worth it to spend couple hours to fix a minor bug. I have to find a better architecture to do it more efficiently later when it scales. 
- Scoreboard - whether to store and display the scores separately for each player each round.
- Slot machine effect - fidning good reference with easy-to-follow documentation for self-implementation.
- Hiding/Showing elements - more difficult as there were more features and css were added.
- Image size. Original size was 3000px X 3000px so when set as a bg image, it didn't show. I thought there was something wrong with the way I coded.
- Implementing tool tip
- Finding free animal sound files. Also, it was difficult to find good rat, rabbit, and monkey sound files
- Fixing items were incrementally more difficult as more features were added - non-scalable code.

## Findings/Questions
- .target is the same level is .textContent
- innerHTML not equal to .textContent?
- is whatever is in the textContent get automatically printed to HTML?
- what is target? just an object? can i replace it by any object?
- Are InnerHTML, innerText, textContent all on the same level?
- InnerHTML, innerText, textContent - if i assigned different strings to each. Which takes precedence?
- selecting each square to update is much easier than having one button to do all the work. 
- what does font-size: 62.5%; do?
- what does min-height do?
- what does 100vh do?
- what does view port do?
- the screen doesn't move to center when body width is defined in body css. 
- vh, vp, vw, min, max
- when you do pass through (evt) as a parameter for addeventlisteners
- what does session contents restored from 2/12/2022 at 4:20:50 PM mean?
- things like audio variable shoudl go under variables (state)?
- set at flex-start and then adjusting the margins is easier - than space around - contrary to what i thought at the beginning.
- what's em and rem
- img src vs. div background-image for slot machine
- give padding to main rather than giving margin/padding to  elements inside. 
- // console.log(`scoreBoard: ${scoreBoard}`) // why does this print with score as textContent even though it should be cleared to "". apply time delay to see if the textContent element has been reset in HTML
- #score-board-B > .score-board-b-turn { why doesn't this work?
- unit 1 assessment : why does font size from body change
- queryselectorall didn't work

## Next Steps (backlog)
- Play animal sound when player is chosen (before play button is clicked)
- Present winning zodiac's traits after the game is over. 
- Clean up code/refactor
- Adjust scoreboard box size
- Favicon gets dynamically updated. 
- Nintendo Switch/phone skin as background
- Sound effect for spin.
- animal sound when choosing player: Choose one of 12 zodiacs and they play the sound. 
- refactor scoresArray 
- winner's total scores are highlighted and colored.
- better way to initialize scoresArray.
- desktop responsive (media query): adjust to real-size desktop and mobile later
- show which zodiac the zodiacs in each pillar gets along with.
- Clean up css (code-level) area with structure
- choose player among 12 zodiacs and their sound is played when won. when there's a tie, a cat's sound is played. 
- bug: when you hit play again while spin is ongoing before total scores are revealed, it shows the total sdcore right away.
- bug: If you chooose somewhere in between the animals, it returns error in choose player
- build animation to slide up select area
- replace select player area using nav scrollspy.
- refactor doShuffle(): integrate 4 spin functions into one.
- favicon gets dynamically updated. 
- winner zodiac's sound plays afteer winning
- remove button after the 6th play so user can't click it. 
- share toggle
- show player's name at the end. 
- tool tip : line break
- choose player - title color changes based on who is picking
- make it so that shuffle button cannot be clicked twice. 
- turn/winner display should move down to bottom. 
- accept name from the player
- animal sound when choosing a zodiac. (with icon, before play button is clicked)
- when an animal is chosen (before selected), the chosen area background becomes colored with 0.5 opacity. 
- select player area - hide (animation - slide up & down), sound
- clean up code/refactor: css clean up
- CTA button - download
- Show which zodiac you get along with
- implement spin sound
- update scoreboard using append child: - use yeezy/taylor method to add score list to score board, Use createElement. Use ternary, use appendChild
- Adjust chance of winning in accordance with zodiac selection 
- you put in your bday, and a zodiac is chosen
- show official results board (historical rankings)
- scoreboard box size adjust
